Drops are used to randomly spawn things, typically treasure. When a monster
dies, its drop (if any) is used to determine what treasures it leaves
behind. Since random spawning is a key piece of the gameplay experience,
the drop system is designed to be powerful and very flexible.

Each drop is a tree of item choices. Leaves of the tree are specific item types,
and branches are ways of selecting one of more of the child nodes. The tree
can be nested arbitrarily deeply.

Each line in a drop tree is formatted like:
    [quantity] type [odds]

Quantity is the number of times that line is repeated. If the line is an item
then it means that many items will be dropped. If the line is a branch, then
the entire branch will be rolled that many times. Quantity can be any die roll:
a fixed number (3), a range (2-5), dice (2d5), a triangle range (5t3), or a
taper (2(3:4)). If omitted, defaults to 1.

(Note that this is distinct from the item stack's own quantity, which is
specified by the item type. Quantity here is basically the number of stacks.)

Type is the type of drop. For an item, it will be the item type (singular),
for example "dagger". If it is the name of a drop macro, then that macro will
be inserted here. If the line is a branch it will one of a few different
pre-defined drop branch selection types.

Drop Branches
=============

Drop branches let the game select between multiple different potential drops
instead of always dropping the same thing. The parent line determines what
kind of logic is used to select a branch, and each child line is one
potential option. Branches can be nested arbitrarily, such that child lines
in a branch can themselves be branches.

- "one of"
  This is a "choose" branch, which means one and only one of the branch's
  child nodes will be dropped. With a choose branch, the odds for each
  child line are the odds of selecting that line and not any of the others.
  Odds are assumed to add up to 100, and if omitted will default to "even"
  odds. I.e. if there are three items to choose from, each will have a 1 in
  3 chance of being selected if the odds aren't explicitly provided. ex:

- "any of"
  This is an "all" branch, which means that zero, one, or more of the child
  branches may be chosen. This lets you drop multiple items at once. With an
  all branch, each child line will be rolled against its odds to see if it
  dropped, independent of whether other child lines were dropped. The odds
  are assumed to be out of 100. If omitted, they default to 100% (always
  drop the item).

The other branch types are based on "level". For drops from killing a
monster, this will be the monster's level. The "odds", when provided by
child lines will represent levels instead of numeric odds.

- "one from level"
  This chooses an item tightly based on level. Each child line's odds
  specify the minimum level required to generate that item. The last child
  line whose minimum level is greater than or equal to the current level
  (with some slight random variation) will be chosen. Child lines should
  be ordered in ascending level order. For example:

  one from level
	sword (10)
	axe (20)

  If this drop is placed at level 15, it will generate a sword. At level
  20 or higher, it will drop an axe. At level 9 or less, it will drop
  nothing.

- "one up to level"
  This is similar to "one from level" except that it may randomly choose
  a lower-level child line where "one from level" always selects the
  highest possible match. With the above example, a level 30 drop would
  always be an axe for "one from level", but could be an axe or a sword
  with "one up to level".

- "one near level"
  This is a fuzzier version of "one from level" (and generally preferable
  since it gives less artificial behavior). Where "one from level" treats
  each child line's odds as a hard level requirement, this treats them as
  probabilities. For example:

  one near level
	dagger (10)
	sword (20)
	axe (40)

  At level 10 or less, it will most likely drop a dagger. From 10 to 20,
  the odds will gradually shift until by 20, a sword is the most likely
  drop. Then from 20 to 40, the odds will drift towards axes. From 40 and
  above, an axe is the most likely drop.

The root tag when specifying drops for a monster will be either "drops" or
"drops one". "drops" is the same as an "any" branch, and "drops one" is a
"choose branch".

Drop Macros
===========

Because drop trees can get pretty complex, it's useful to be able to
reuse pieces of them. We can do this by defining drop macros. A drop
macro is a drop tree associated with a name, by convention placed inside
parentheses. These macros are defined in the drop data files in this
directory. They can then be used either directly in a race's drop line,
or within another drop definition.